feat(qaas): bootstrap quantum computing product (#5846)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/quantum-computing/additional-content/quantum-computing-information.mdx

---
title: Quantum Computing Information
description: Learn more about Scaleway Quantum computing.
tags: qpu
dates:
  validation: 2025-11-21
  posted: 2021-11-21
---

## Understanding emulation billing

> Scaleway offers different "Platforms" for emulation, ranging from standard CPU instances to high-end GPU clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Understanding emulation billing

Scaleway offers different "Platforms" for emulation, ranging from standard CPU instances to high-end GPU clusters.
```

## Understanding platform names
Scaleway exposes resources via distinct Platform naming that you must specify when selecting a backend:

* **`QPU-IBEX-12PQ`**: This connects you to the **real quantum computer** here, located at AQT's headquarters, in Innbruck. The naming specifies the number of **physical qubits** Use this for final runs and validatable experiments.
* **`EMU-IBEX-12PQ-L4`**: This connects you to a **noisy emulator**. It mimics the real hardware connectivity and gates but runs classically (on Scaleway's L4 GPU instances). Use this for debugging and testing your code logic before running on the real QPU hardware and paying for real quantum shots.
* **`EMU-QSIM-H100`**: This connects you to the **noiseless emulator**, here based on Google Qsim emulator, running on powerful H100 GPUs. It does not mimic any specific hardware but provides a fast and efficient way to simulate larger circuits without noise. Use this for prototyping and exploring larger quantum algorithms.

## From console to code

> Scaleway Quantum Computing platform is primary designed to be **coding first** but also provides a [web console](https://console.scaleway.com/qaas/) to create and manage your Sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## From console to code

Scaleway Quantum Computing platform is primarily designed to be **coding first** but also provides a [web console](https://console.scaleway.com/qaas/) to create and manage your Sessions.
```
